- This is a list of titles available on **USA Netflix with audio description tracks in languages *other than English***.  *This is the ONLY such list in the world!*  You can't even find it on Netflix.  In other countries, of course, the list may be quite different, and we can't help you with that.  Use the **Titles with AD: Netflix** link above for shows audio described in **English**.  For general information on audio described programs on Netflix, see our [Audio Description Via Netflix](https://adp.acb.org/netflix.html) page.
  LAST TITLE UPDATE:  Jan 3, 2023; 2046 titles; 53 description languages. **  This file is usually updated every week on Tuesdays.  It is programmatically generated from information supplied directly to us by Netflix, and titles are truncated at 50 characters.  At this time, we are unable to track and call out weekly additions; and none of these titles are* *included in our Master AD List.
	- This list provides titles available on USA Netflix with audio description tracks in languages other than English. It is the only list of its kind in the world and cannot be found on Netflix. It is updated every week on Tuesdays and contains currently 2046 titles with 53 different audio description languages. It does not appear in their Master AD List and titles are truncated at 50 characters.
	- Outline:
	  I. Introduction 
	  A. List of Titles on USA Netflix with Audio Description Tracks in Non-English Languages 
	  B. Information on Audio Described Programs on Netflix 
	  
	  II. Last Title Update 
	  A. January 3, 2023 
	  B. 2046 Titles
	  C. 53 Description Languages 
	  
	  III. File Updates 
	  A. Weekly on Tuesdays 
	  B. Programmatically Generated from Information from Netflix
	  C. Titles Truncated at 50 Characters 
	  D. Unable to Track Weekly Additions 
	  E. Not Included in Master AD List
		- IV. Language Availability 
		  A. 26 Languages with Audio Description Tracks 
		  B. Favor of Major Languages 
		  C. Representation of Minor Languages 
		  
		  V. Conclusion 
		  A. Ratio of Titles to Languages 
		  B. Tracking to Improve AVG Weekly Additions 
		  C. Encouraging Further Worldwide Representation
			- I. Introduction 
			  A. Definition of Audio Description Tracks 
			  B. Origin and Increase of Accessibility Options 
			  
			  II. Market Analysis 
			  A. Availability of Unlimited Streaming Services 
			  B. Variety and Accessibility of Audio Description Tracks 
			  
			  III. Availability of Films and Shows 
			  A. List of Popular Films and Shows with Audio Descriptions 
			  B. Number of Titles Offering Audio Description Tracks 
			  C. Major Production Companies Offering Audio Description Tracks
	- Outline:
	  I. Introduction 
	      A. Overview of list 
	      B. Location of list 
	      C. Overview of audio described programs 
	      D. Timeframe and details of list 
	  II. Titles with Audio Description Tracks in Languages Other Than English 
	      A. Available on USA Netflix 
	      B. Only list in the world 
	      C. Different list in other countries 
	      D. Link for titles with audio description in English 
	  III. Summary 
	      A. Last title update 
	      B. Amount of titles 
	      C. Description languages 
	      D. Update frequency 
	      E. Truncation of titles 
	      F. Exclusion from master AD list
	- Outline: 
	  I. Titles Available on USA Netflix with Audio Description Tracks in Languages Other Than English
	  A. Available Only on This List 
	  B. Different in Other Countries 
	  C. Titles with AD: Netflix Links for Shows Audio Described in English
	  D. Audio Description Via Netflix Page 
	  II. Update Information 
	  A. Date of Last Title Update 
	  B. Number of Titles 
	  C. Number of Description Languages 
	  D. Frequency of Updates 
	  E. Truncation of Titles to 50 Characters 
	  F. Not Included in Master AD List
	- This page provides a list of titles available on USA Netflix featuring audio description tracks in languages other than English. It is not available on Netflix and is the only such list in the world. The titles are updated weekly on Tuesdays and are programmatically generated from information supplied directly to ADP.ACB.org from Netflix. The titles are truncated at 50 characters and are not included in the master AD list.
		- I. Introduction 
		  A. Background Information 
		  B. Overview of List
		  
		  II. Titles on USA Netflix with Non-English Audio Description Tracks
		  A. List is Updated Weekly
		  B. Programmatically Generated Information
		  C. Titles are Truncated at 50 Characters
		  
		  III. Summary 
		  A. Unique Resource
		  B. Only List of Its Kind
	- Outline:
	  I. Overview of list
	  A. Titles available on USA Netflix with audio description tracks in languages other than English
	  B. The ONLY such list in the world
	  C. Titles with AD: Netflix link available for English audio description
	  II. Details 
	  A. Last title update: Jan 3, 2023; 2046 titles; 53 description languages
	  B. Updated every week on Tuesdays
	  C. Programmatically generated 
	  D. Titles truncated at 50 characters
	  E. Unable to track and call out weekly additions 
	  F. None of the titles are included in the Master AD List
	- **
	  
	  Outline:
	  I. Introduction
	  A. Explanation of List 
	  B. Location of List 
	  C. Language Availability 
	  II. Last Title Update 
	  A. Date 
	  B. Number of Titles 
	  C. Number of Languages 
	  D. Truncation of Titles 
	  III. Master AD List Inclusion
	- 1. Izgnanie (Exile) (Russia)
	  2. Pakt olbrzymów (Bride for a Giant) (Poland)
	  3. Отступник (Outsider) (Russia)
	  4. Padurile nemuritoare (The Trees of Everlasting Silence) (Romania)
	  5. Elsker deg for alltid (Love Hogbiess) (Norway)
	  6. Freies Land (Free Land) (Germany)
	  7. 凶宅 (Murder House) (Taiwan)
	  8. 장학금 (Scholarship) (South Korea)
	  9. Lực Hấp Dẫn II (Force 2) (Vietnam)
	  10. 生死时速 (Car Fever) (China)
-
-
-