public:: true

- I've remade my website using logseq and the hugo static site generator.
- I write all my posts in Logseq, and use the Schrodinger plugin to convert the logseq pages into hugo compatible markdown files.
- After I export my logseq pages as hugo markdown files, I use hugo to convert them to HTML and upload to AWS Cloudfront, where I host my site.
- ## Motivation
	- I want to start posting my logseq notes and blog posts online
	- I want to host these on my own site, where they can stay up forever, instead of just on Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, etc.
	- I also want to make publishing to my site as easily as possible. Managing my notes as well as my public site in Logseq is very convenient and let's me quickly push new content.
	- I write everything in logseq, export using the hugo plugin, push to github, and my site is deployed in just a few minutes.
- ## New Site - Motivations
	- When I first started my website a long time ago, I used wordpress, and since then I've moved to static site generators.
	- I've spent a lot of time hand tuning static site generators, but decided I wanted something more "hands off" and that worked out of the box.
	- I was using a highly customized eleventy static site, but it was a lot of maintenance and was slow to build my site.
	- Hugo, along with the PaperMod theme does everything my old site did, including image optimization, but is mostly zero config and super fast. Plus, I really enjoy the theme and layout of the plugin.
	- I was publishing an interactive graph using Logseq built in export feature, but I couldn't get it to work with seo. Later on, I plan on publishing my full interactive graph again, but for now I'm focusing on the static site.
- ## Considerations
	- ### Zero Config
		- I'm tired of messing with build settings for optimizing images
		- Hugo is really popular and has a number of libraries that do everything I want out of the box
	- ### Fast to Build
		- My hand made setup with Eleventy was slow to build and optimize images
		- Hugo is extremely fast
	- ### Easy to Publish New Entries
		- I want to reduce the friction of publishing new notes as much as possible.
		- I'm already writing my notes in Logseq, so being able to clean up these notes and publish within logseq makes it effortless to make new posts.
	- ### No Maintenance and Cheap
		- I want to host my site for less than a few dollars per month and not ever have to adjust it
		- I set up this site to deploy to AWS S3 and Cloudfront, which is cheap and doesn't require any maintanence.
	- ### Will be Around Forever
		- I want to make sure every link to my site continues to work forever.
		- I plan to host the site under my own name and maintain every link for as long as possible.
		- I'm using the logseq static site plugin so I can customize the permalink.
	- ### SEO
		- Being discoverable on Google is huge, and having a static site instead of a single page app seems to work better.
	- ### Open Source
		- I want all the content, even the work in progress to be open source on GitHub.
		- I'm pushing the logseq graph, the hugo files, and the deployment tooling to public github.
		- This way, others can clone my graph, see exactly how I'm using logseq, and copy my deployment tooling to make a site like mine.
- ## How it Works
	- ### Logseq
		- I do all my writing, note taking, and task management in Logseq so being able to instantly publish my notes is a huge advantage. My main goal is making it as frictionless as possible to post new notes to my site. Taking notes in logseq, and re-editing in Markdown for my earlier static site was far too time consuming.
	- ### Logseq Schrodinger (Hugo) Plugin
		- It is published using the Logseq Schrodinger Plugin which is now built into logseq. This plugin takes my logseq notes and converts them into hugo compatible markdown files.
		- Hugo is mainly configured by "front matter" which is YAML at the top of your markdown files, to set things like the title, tags, description, permalink, etc.
	- ### Hugo
		- #### Papermod plugin
			- The [Papermod Plugin](https://github.com/adityatelange/hugo-PaperMod) has many features like image optimization, google analytics, and social sharing. It includes the main features I need out of the box
		- I will admit I prefer to use Javascript instead of Go for customization, but the speed and size of the community makes Hugo worth it.
	- ### Deployment
		- #### Logseq Schrodinger Plugin
			- After I'm doing writing a post in logseq, I push the export button to generate a folder of hugo compatible markdown files.
			- I check these files into git along with my public graph.
		- #### Github Actions
			- Whenever I push to github, Github Actions automatically generates my Hugo site and deploys it to AWS.
		- #### AWS CDK
			- I use the Typescript AWS CDK to configure the infrastructure for my site.
			- It allows me to use Typescript to specify the entire AWS setup for my site include
				- Route53 domain name
				- subdomain
				- s3
				- cloudfront
				- cloudfront function url rewrite
				- deployments and cache invalidations
		- #### Cloudfront
			- Cloudfront is a CDN which serves my content from locations all over the world, so it is fast everywhere, even in Australia.
			- They have a generous free tier, so it doesn't cost anything unless you have massive traffic.
			- #### Cloudfront URL Rewrite
				- It's really important to me to have "clean" links and I hate having a `/` at the end of my sites like `briansunter.com/foo/`
				- A cloudfront static site on S3 has these trailing slashes by default.
				- I use a cloudfront function to rewrite the url so the trailing slash isn't needed
				- If you try to add a trailing slash, the functions redirects you to the non trailing slash version.
				- It's a small detail, but I hate when hosting providers force me to use the trailing slash, so I'm happy to use cloudfront functions to remove it.
- ## Conclusion
	- I'm continuing to build out posts on my new site while migrating my old posts.
	- I hope to fully move over to this site soon, and post a lot more often.
	- So far, I've been really happy with this setup and hope to build it out more in the future.