public:: true
title:: newsletter/issue/8

- type:: [[newsletter]]
  tags:: [[newsletter]] 
  name:: Time Complexity, Donald Knuth on Email
  start-date:: [[Sep 5th, 2022]] 
  sent-date:: 
  revue-link::
  site-hits:: 
  followers:: 
  tweet-impressions:: 
  profile-visits::
  newsletter-subscribers:: 0
#  [Sign up for the newsletter here](https://www.getrevue.co/profile/bsunter/issues/weekly-newsletter-of-brian-sunter-issue-1-1220479)
### See all issues -> [[newsletter]]
# Summary and Reflection ðŸ¤”
# Updates ðŸ†•
# Productivity Toolkit ðŸ› ï¸
	- In this section, I'll share a productivity tip I've learned recently.
- # Brain Food ðŸ§  Donald Knuth
	- In this section, I'll share some interesting articles and "food for thought"
	- We live in an age where we are constantly bombarded by messages and interruptions.
	- We are more connected and have more information than ever, but it's almost impossible to do deep focused work.
	- I've always thought it was interesting how some of the greatest computer scientists like Donald Knuth and Edsger W. Dijkstra were cautious about certain technology trends like email.
	- ## On Email
		- Donald Knuth is a computer scientist who has been writing a book series called "The Art of Computer Programming" for over 50 years. The book is a comprehensive treatise on the subject of computer programming.
		- He has famously stayed very focused on writing the book and careful when communicating with his fans.
		- Donald Knuth doesn't have a personal email address. To reach him directly for questions or comments you have to [mail him a letter.](https://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/email.html)
		- Here's what he thinks about email:
		- > I have been a happy man ever since January 1, 1990, when I no longer had an email address.
		- > Email is a wonderful thing for people whose role in life is to be on top of things. But not for me; my role is to be on the bottom of things. What I do takes long hours of studying and uninterruptible concentration.
		- > I need to communicate with thousands of people all over the world as I write my books. I also want to be responsive to the people who read those books and have questions or comments. My goal is to do this communication efficiently, in batch mode --- like, one day every six months
		- > I DO NOT ANSWER UNSOLICITED EMAILS, nor do I respond to emails that were sent to my colleagues with a bothersome request for them to communicate with me. Email is a no-no EXCEPT for reporting errors in books.
		- > I hope you can understand why I am almost always unhappy to receive unsolicited email myself. Thank you for your patience and cooperation as I try to finishÂ The Art of Computer ProgrammingÂ ([TAOCP](https://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/taocp.html)), a work that I began in 1962 and that I will need many years to complete.
		- [See Knuth's post on email, for more.](https://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/email.html)
	- ## Knuth Reward Checks
		- There is an email address for reporting errors in his books, but his secretary filters and prints the messages for him. The email address is strictly for reporting technical, typographical, or historical errors in his book.
		- If you are the first to find an error, Donald Knuth will personally write you a check for $2.56 (a hexadecimal "dollar"). These checks are considered one of the most prized trophies in computer science.
		- For more info on [Knuth Checks, see here.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knuth_reward_check)
# Analytics ðŸ“ˆ
# Outro
	- Check out the [[newsletter-roadmap]] to see what I have in mind for future issues. Let me know on [twitter @bsunter](https://twitter.com)