- # Brian Sunter's Notes
	- These are my notes on a variety of subjects, like a personal wikipedia. I think of it as a "Knowledge Graph", "Second Brain", or "Digital Garden".
- ## What is this site?
	- I use note-taking for learning new subjects and managing projects. Publishing my notes encourages me to improve my notes to the point where they're understandable to someone else.
	  id:: 6289640d-bd43-4a77-a3ce-93e37ba93ebe
	- Unlike a traditional blog, these are not long posts in chronological order. These are short, highly networked fragments of information and summaries. I use the features of my note taking program to recombine notes from other pages.
- ## Why am I doing this?
	- I also hope to connect with others that have similar interests, learn from them, and share what I've learned and how I learned it. Everyone takes notes in such a unique way and I enjoy learning from others workflows.
	- [If you found this interesting, get in touch.](https://twitter.com/Bsunter)
- ## How to use this site?
	- Click a link you're interested in, and use the [features of Logseq to explore it.](https://docs.logseq.com/#/page/Contents)
		- the `[[name]]` pages are internal links.
	- The intention is to find a subject of interest and explore the connected links from there. You can start with the links on this page, or use the left sidebar to search, view all pages, or view a visual graph pages.
- ## Who am I?
	- [See my logseq profile here]([[logseq-social/profile]]) to learn more about me.
- ## Recent - Start Here
	- [[newsletter/issue-10]]
	- [[logseq-openai/popup]]
	- [[books read in 2022]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-9]]
	- [[project-template]]
	- [[why-large-language-models-are-interesting]]
	- [[almanack-of-naval-ravikant]]
	- [[headphone-eye-mask]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-8]]
	- [[integer-sum-formula]]
	- [[abdul bari algorithms/time-complexity]]
	- [[new website on logseq hugo]]
	- [[abdul bari algorithms]]
	- [[you and your research]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-7]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-6]]
	- [[intro-to-algorithms]]
	- [[logseq-projects]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-5]]
	- [[algorithms-boot-camp]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-4]]
	- [[notetaking-with-AI]]
	- [[logseq-tasks]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-3]]
	- [[logseq-getting-started]]
	- [[omnivore-logseq-guide]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-2]]
	- [[newsletter-roadmap]]
	- [[poodle mixes]]
	- [[newsletter/issue-1]]
	- [[newsletter template]]
	- [[newsletter]]
	- [[comparison-template]]
	- [[100 newsletter subscribers]]
	- [[logseq-social]] (My profile -> [[logseq-social/profile]] )
	- [[algorithms-boot-camp-study-guide]]
	- [[gpt3-chinese-language-tutor]]
	- [[machine learning study guide]]
	- [[interview-with-an-ai]]
	- [[how to use gpt3 to learn kubernetes]]
	- [[daily highlight productivity technique]]
	- [[travels with charley]] Book Review
- {{embed [[website-outro]]}}