public:: true
tags:: [[logseq]] [[gtd]] [[newsletter2]] [[productivity]]

- # What is an Inbox?
	- When crafintg a productivity workflow, I think designing your Inbox workflow is a good place to start.
	- The Inbox is a concept from the GTD (Getting Things Done) productivity technique.
	- The org-mode plugin of emacs also has a concept of "Quick Capturing"
	- An inbox is how you capture all the inputs to your life that you deal with on a daily basis.
	- Examples of "inputs" are getting phone calls, receiving a message, coming up with an idea, finding a new article, and anything else that requires you to eventually react.
	- The main idea of the Inbox is this: whenever something pops up that you need to deal with, find a way to write it down as quickly as possible, then organize it later, instead of trying to deal with it right away.
- # Why Capture Everying?
	- There are a number of reasons for capturing tasks immediately when they pop up.
	- The most important reason for capturing tasks is you will forget them if you don't write them down.  Even if you think you have a good memory, you could accomplish more if you didn't have to focus on remembering.
	- Second, the time when you become aware of a task usually isn't the time when you are best equipped to deal with it. It's better to look at everything you captured at the end of the day to triage it, instead of figuring things out as they come in.
	- Third, capturing tasks allows you to "pipeline" your efforts. Meaning, some tasks like running errands downtime are best to do all at once, instead of sporadically.
- # How to Capture in logseq.
	-