title:: 1,000 True Fans (highlights)
author:: [[Kevin Kelly]]
full-title:: "1,000 True Fans"
category:: #articles
url:: https://kk.org/thetechnium/1000-true-fans

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- To be a successful creator you don’t need millions. You don’t need millions of dollars or millions of customers, millions of clients or millions of fans. To make a living as a craftsperson, photographer, musician, designer, author, animator, app maker, entrepreneur, or inventor you need only thousands of true fans.
	  A ([View Highlight](https://omnivore.app/me/the-technium-1-000-true-fans-181cafd47e6#3feb00ef-cd38-4075-a9bb-1ca15e480987))
	- true fan is defined as a fan that will buy anything you produce. These diehard fans will drive 200 miles to see you sing; they will buy the hardback and paperback and audible versions of your book; they will purchase your next figurine sight unseen; they will pay for the “best-of” DVD version of your free youtube channel; they will come to your chef’s table once a month. If you have roughly a thousand of true fans like this (also known as super fans), you can make a living — if you are content to make a living but not a fortune. ([View Highlight](https://omnivore.app/me/the-technium-1-000-true-fans-181cafd47e6#1523ca17-01a0-47c9-b297-c1e22d519b53))
	- Here’s how the math works. You need to meet two criteria. First, you have to create enough each year that you can earn, on average, $100 profit from each true fan. That is easier to do in some arts and businesses than others, but it is a good creative challenge in every area because it is always easier and better to give your existing customers more, than it is to find new fans. ([View Highlight](https://omnivore.app/me/the-technium-1-000-true-fans-181cafd47e6#d3efd4ce-fa2c-494d-b294-ef121dae5400))
	- Second, you must have a direct relationship with your fans. That is, they must pay you directly. You get to keep all of their support, unlike the small percent of their fees you might get from a music label, publisher, studio, retailer, or other intermediate. If you keep the full $100 of each true fan, then you need only 1,000 of them to earn $100,000 per year. That’s a living for most folks.
	  A ([View Highlight](https://omnivore.app/me/the-technium-1-000-true-fans-181cafd47e6#62f575e8-d462-417d-9b62-a54860a6644d))
	- If you added one new true fan per day, it’d only take a few years to gain a thousand. ([View Highlight](https://omnivore.app/me/the-technium-1-000-true-fans-181cafd47e6#621b1de2-54a0-44b9-9022-f54beab31799))
	- you lived in any of the 2 million small towns on Earth you might be the only one in your town to crave death metal music, or get turned on by whispering, or want a left-handed fishing reel. Before the web you’d never be able to satisfy that desire. You’d be alone in your fascination. But now satisfaction is only one click away. Whatever your interests as a creator are, your 1,000 true fans are one click from you. As far as I can tell there is nothing — no product, no idea, no desire — without a fan base on the internet. ([View Highlight](https://omnivore.app/me/the-technium-1-000-true-fans-181cafd47e6#d482be58-ee10-4f1e-9bcd-cc3e13699fda))
	- Yet if even only one out of million people were interested, that’s potentially 7,000 people on the planet. That means that any 1-in-a-million appeal can find 1,000 true fans. The trick is to practically find those fans, or more accurately, to have them find you. ([View Highlight](https://omnivore.app/me/the-technium-1-000-true-fans-181cafd47e6#0dacd9b6-d2ca-47ac-b6da-0a943d37338f))