title:: [Advice] Why chronic stress wipes out discipline - Part 1: the Tryptophan-Kynurenine Pathway : getdisciplined (highlights)
author:: [[dbcannon]]
full-title:: "[Advice] Why chronic stress wipes out discipline - Part 1: the Tryptophan-Kynurenine Pathway : getdisciplined"
category:: #articles
url:: https://ol.reddit.com/r/getdisciplined/comments/phiqkz/advice_why_chronic_stress_wipes_out_discipline/

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- [Advice] Why chronic stress wipes out discipline - Part 1: the Tryptophan-Kynurenine Pathway (self.getdisciplined)  submitted 1 year ago * by dbcannon   5244&amp; 7 more  After spending a few decades barking up the &quot;Willpower&quot; tree and failing to manufacture more of it, I decided to read a thousand pages of academic literature on discipline and impulsive behavior, and here's something interesting I found:  (Any med students feel free to correct my clumsy summary)  Willpower is a twitch muscle - once it wears out it needs rest to recharge - and plays only a small part in our overall sense of discipline. Discipline is largely enabled by specific chemical pathways in the body, and there are some specific things you can change in your life that will likely boost willpower and motivation.  A chemical pathway is like a Plinko board on The Price is Right - a chemical is changed into something else, then something else, etc. and the path often forks as it cascades down: if the body needs to turn up a thermostat it nudges the reaction down one path, or it will turn down a thermostat by nudging it down the other path. At the end of each path there are usually receptors that turn a gene on or off to get it to create more of a specific protein - say to grow more hair, make more insulin, make you feel happy so you'll go out and kill a bison or find someone to pass on your DNA.  The Tryptophan-Kynurenine Pathway:  Tryptophan is critical in balancing our system overall. You can't make it so you have to eat it, and it is converted into Serotonin (through Vitamin B6), which sets off a number of gene expressions that balance our mental health and metabolism. (diabetics often suffer from depression, and vice versa.)  When your body detects there's a problem, it will turn off that autopilot system and take hold of the wheel to manually steer itself. If you catch an illness or have a traumatic experience, the body produces inflammatory cytokines that break down Tryptophan before it can be diverted into Serotonin, dumps it down the Kynurenine Pathway, and steers it in a direction that makes you want to crawl into a cool, dark cave and stay away from other people, so you can heal up and not get anyone else sick. So it depresses the central nervous system (specifically the prefrontal cortex, where your executive function arises) along with the regions of the hippocampus and amygdala that make you want to go out and use your body for things - sensing, smelling, playing, sexing. It also turns off your sensitivity to insulin, so you burn through your energy stores more slowly.  (side note: if your tryptophan level is suddenly depleted beyond a certain critical level, the body can produce suicidal urges. Suicide is often a battle against something the body is doing to you, and not just someone wussing out and deciding not to live anymore.)  Once the body feels you're in a safe space and ready to go back out, it dumps Tryptophan down the other side of the pathway and increases the activity of these regions of the brain, kicks off the creation of new neural tissue and branching, and tells your metabolism to burn through the reserves necessary to fuel this process.  This oversteering is a good thing - otherwise you'd react to life like a snail. But problems arise when the switch is permanently flipped one direction. And chronic inflammation does that.  Constant stress from a job you hate, financial problems, insecurities and unresolved traumas - all keep this switch turned on, which worsens all these problems, which becomes a self-reinforcing cycle. A diet full of processed, inflammatory junk, a smoking habit, air pollution, or the low-grade inflammation that comes with obesity (or even tooth decay) all keep this switch turned on. Over time you become severely insulin-resistant, chronically depleted of serotonin, your prefrontal cortex just shuts off, and the tissue in your hippocampus and amygdala erodes.  Then you go on subs like this and look for ways to manufacture more willpower. It ain't gonna happen, bud. You're farting at a hurricane.  So what do to:  Take Vitamin B Complex - B6 enables more Tryptophan to metabolize into Serotonin before it's kicked down the chute, and B12 and Folate are critical cofactors in a few other related processes. Take fish oil capsules, Vitamin C, Vitamin D, and eat a lot of fresh green vegetables. This helps neutralize the inflammatory cytokines like IDO that kick off the pathway. I'll throw kale in the blender with fresh fruit and a little water. Blend the hell out of it until it's smooth. Get any underlying mental health conditions treated. If you have trauma, find an EMDR practitioner. Bipolar disorder causes the autopilot to go haywire; mood stabilizers tamp it down. Depression is like a lead foot on the brake pedal. Get some damn sleep. This is life-or-death. Set an alarm every night to turn screens off, then another alarm an hour after that to jump into bed no matter what. It's during sleep that the CNS flushes out the neurotoxic inflammatory byproducts it creates during the day. Spend $150 on an air purifier with both a charcoal and HEPA filter. Don't buy a cheap one; also buy a year's worth of replacement filters and change them on schedule. Air pollution and allergies are a huge contributor to inflammation and poor sleep. Find a tribe that will get you out of the house and doing physical, enjoyable activity. This gets other parts of the brain motivating us - our social drives, pleasure drives, the urge to repeat positive memories and move our bodies and sense things. This is what our species was meant to do - willpower is a second-to-last resort (before panic, which is the procrastinator's fallback,) when none of the other parts of the brain are motivating us. This activity fires up the brain, reduces inflammation, and gets a number of other processes going so the microglia that produce those inflammatory cytokines don't feel like the last soldiers on the battlefield, and they cool the hell down. (side note: studies show the remedy for addiction and other compulsive behaviors is social connection, not guilt and a reliance on willpower.) Find a creative activity you can do. Any higher-order activity that forces your brain to form new neural connections - especially cross-hemispheric connections - breaks you out of the circular, ruminating thoughts of self-preservation and signals to the brain that conditions are safe again, and that it should start regenerating the brain tissue it chewed up. Use your limited willpower to establish one new positive habit at a time. Get your emotions out of this and don't crap on yourself when it isn't perfect. Just see your willpower as one of many resources and deploy it in small increments. After a month or two when the neural pathway for that new routine is strong and established, you'll free up your willpower to be used somewhere else. If you read all the way to the end, give yourself a cookie. I'll make another post when my undisciplined brain gets around to it.  Reading: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6790159/