title:: Ask HN: Anyone else feel trapped in FANG? How did you get out? | Hacker News (highlights)
author:: [[reply]]
full-title:: "Ask HN: Anyone else feel trapped in FANG? How did you get out? | Hacker News"
category:: #articles
url:: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32537004

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- Hi HN, I’ve been working at a FANG for 2 years now and I feel like my career goals and interests are not aligned with where I’m at. Outside of my FANG I was a go-getter who loves learning new things and taking on hard problems. Inside my company I have tried over the past 2 years to propose different solutions to hard problems and I just get blown off.  I’m good at my job I already got promoted in 1 year and am moving up. I am making more money than I expected, but at work I’m not able to express myself creatively or do things outside the box. I just get assigned straightforward work from my manager that the product managers and “leadership” assign to our team with barely any input on the overall project or ability to propose new projects.  I feel like if I stay here I will just get stuck in a cycle of never accomplishing my goals but I’m scared to move teams or companies or build a startup because I have a good manager, a good comp and my job isn’t that stressful.  I could become more involved at work in building paper reading groups or other kinds of side projects to creatively express myself at work but I don’t want to be the person whose life revolves around their FANG.  Anyone else feel like this? What did you do?
	- My advice would be to put your head down, live like a monk, and save/invest money. Get promoted as far as you can, but don't burn yourself out. If you see yourself having a family someday, spend your free time on finding a spouse. Five years in, you'll have a huge pile of cash and an insane chunk on your resume that will almost certainly guarantee you an interview wherever you want. Once you hit that point, take some time off and do literally anything. Start a startup, be a contractor, get a new degree.  You have stumbled onto the sort of prosperity (easy low-stress job) that 99.95% of the world literally dreams about. To throw it away because you're not &quot;creatively expressing yourself&quot; would be foolish.  This advice doesn't apply if you're a relentlessly competitive founder type like Gates or Bezons, but if you were of that mentality, I doubt you'd be having the same troubles you are.
	- I did this but didn’t get promoted at all. Never tried to. Did the bare minimum. Bounced between 5 managers before bouncing myself out of the company (Google). Lived dirt cheep and stockpiled cash. Used all of my energy during that time to dream of cool ideas. Implementing them now and have zero pressure to go back. Would not trade my current state of existence for anything.
	- Life is too short for advice like this, it really is. Then again I’ve rarely had the discipline to stay put and make a short term sacrifice for long term gain when it comes to my daily work.  It is critically important to me to be fulfilled daily in my work and explore my ideas and passions.  To me, even if I was never financially well off, but I got to pursue my passions and creativity, that would be a life well spent.  Remember, the journey is the reward, not the end.  Disclaimer: I am a college drop out, couldn’t even be patient long enough for that.
	- So you are recommending they let their soul potentially die with advice like, &quot;'creatively expressing yourself' would be foolish&quot; in exchange for &quot;a huge pile of cash&quot;? Do you consider that when they're done climbing the corporate ladder--whenever that might be, if ever--the version of them that &quot;loves learning new things and taking on hard problems&quot; might not be a fraction of what it once was, or might altogether be gone? Also, I highly disagree that FAANG jobs are &quot;easy, low-stress&quot; jobs, but maybe your experience is significantly different.
	- Your soul doesn't die, but there is moral injury and it can heal. I spent a decade in big tech letting my soul languish with a few spurts of expression, and it took a solid six months and ketamine for my soul to flourish. At this point, I can't even express how grateful I am and full of joy since my life is just so great. Yes, I suffered, but it is was so worth it.  Here is the core problem in my life: I hired a private chef which tilts the retirement math out of whack, but I have three decades to solve this problem. It's a fantastic problem to have, and if I had taken opportunities to be happy then I couldn't be here maximizing my own personal creativity.  Right now, I'm building my own platform to mess around and have fun: https://www.adama-platform.com/ and I'm exploring the nature of what I like to make and embracing myself for random detours.
	- dominotw 8 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]  > To throw it away because you're not &quot;creatively expressing yourself&quot; would be foolish. These golden shackles chained me to my faang job for a over a decade. Now I look back and my youth is gone. I have less energy , less creative drive, less inclination to shift my brain into a different groove to spin on. Makes me sick when i think about the fact that i gave my youth away to a corporation. I was just a 'young blood' willing to bang out code on demand.  I look back my past decade and I have no idea what I was doing. Its all just a blur.
	- Yet at the end you have the gold, so to speak. At smaller creative places you may end up feeling fulfilled and entirely unable to support yourself or family financially. It's not binary either. There is a spectrum. I spent years on creative pursuits at college in gaming, got no money for it, then took a corp job. Ultimately I regret pouring out so much creative energy, especially since it was modding based on IP I didn't own. Anyway, my creative pursuits today are so modest and routine it would make the younger me scoff. And yet now I'm satisfied with a corporate job and hobbies like home improvement and occasional game playing and podcast recording.
	- > my job isn’t that stressful. If it wasn't that stressful, you wouldn't be posting this. Feeling unfulfilled is stressful. You are stressed and you are probably burning out (yes it's possible to burn out on boredom).  Change things. Start with easy low risk changes and work your way out from there. If you want to stay in the job you have now, you likely need to change your approach to how you try to make an impact, because what you're doing now obviously isn't working.  But there are likely teams in your company where you'd feel more fulfilled. If not, being promoted at one megacorp is basically catnip for recruiters at others.