title:: Ask HN: Which books you have read till now that were worth investing time in? | Hacker News (highlights)
author:: [[newsoul]]
full-title:: "Ask HN: Which books you have read till now that were worth investing time in? | Hacker News"
category:: #articles
url:: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32935412

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- Speaker for the Dead. It is a second book in Enders game franchise so you will probably need to read the first book first or watch the movie, but second book is mostly independent of the first one.
	- 1. After Virtue by Alasdair MacIntyre 2. The Crisis of the Modern World by Rene Guenon  3. Islam and the Destiny of Man by Gai Eaton
	- &quot;An Algebraic Approach to Non-Classical Logics&quot; by Helena Rasiowa was an eye-opener for me. Before that, &quot;A short introduction to intuitionistic logic&quot; by Gregory Mints is a great read which introduced me to Kripke models (and made me see that intuitionism can be understood classically in an intuitive way), but Rasiowa's book just unlocked how I saw logic from then on.
	- Beyond Freedom and Dignity by B.F. Skinner is probably the best nonfiction book I've ever read. It not only contains profound philosophical insights, but presents them in a concise and approachable manner. Every chapter ends with a recapitulation of the chapter's contents (why isn't this standard?). The book is short and deals with a single topic. It gets to the point rather than beating around the bush, and completely avoids invoking metaphysical explanations or political implications. I truly cannot praise it enough.
	- 1. Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind 2. The Selfish Gene  3. Podcast: Kings of Kings  https://www.dancarlin.com/hardcore-history-56-kings-of-kings...  Each one of these were worth every minute of read/listen.  Edit to add: The world around us feels like it was created as we see it today. But these books and the podcast, combined, show us how we got here, where we are today. Wars, long periods of peace, pandemics, evolution, human adaptability, luck, there are so many things that brought us where we are today. It's not a given, and we can lose it all and be pushed back to stone age, or further back, if we take our current progress for granted.
	- As an atheist, Seneca's Moral letters to Lucilius is my bible. My compass when life gets hard.
	- Meditations by Marcus Aurelius
	- What Every Body Says. It's about understanding body language, I feel like it has helped me understand others better sometimes.
	- I am going to list two books. Fiction: Jurassic Park by M Crichton. Just for the world build up and writing  Non-Fiction: The Machinery of Life by David Goodsell. I fell in love with biology again after reading this book. The wonderful illustrations make the book come alive.
	- From the pov of my career: Designing Data-Intensive Applications is the only technical book I've ever read that I felt was worth the time it took me to read it. It's excellent - I learned a ton, I keep going back to it, and if I'd read it as a fresh graduate it could have saved me a lot of trouble. I've read a few other of the popular programmer books eg Clean Code, Refactoring, the Pragmatic Programmer, Working Effectively With Legacy Code, and I didn't get much value from any of them. They're not bad, it's just that they didn't teach me much that I hadn't already picked up on the job, and I didn't feel like a book was the best way to learn their lessons as opposed to just picking up what you need to know from Google, colleagues, etc, over the years as you gain experience.