title:: Ask HN: Is It Possible to Have a Structured Work Day in Software Dev? | Hacker News (highlights)
author:: [[news.ycombinator.com]]
full-title:: "Ask HN: Is It Possible to Have a Structured Work Day in Software Dev? | Hacker News"
category:: #articles
url:: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33296415

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- Hold on, so you raised to your manager that you're getting burnt out my late night meetings & his solution was to move you to a role where late night meetings are inevitable?
	  To be honest, he doesn't sound very good — I'd either try to change manager or change company.
	  To your wider point — there are still companies that have a more traditional dev vs ops/sysadmin separation. Especially bigger, more traditional businesses (non tech start-ups) that still do their own software dev in-house.
	  Otherwise, you could get a role where the quality of tooling & support while on call is better. There's a difference being 1st line support in a place where things are always on fire and being 3rd line support in a place where the only time you're getting a call is once in a blue moon and there's a postmortem afterwards to work out how it could've been prevented.
	- An assumption I bring it to most questions like this:
	  The world, including the tech world, is much bigger than you think.
	  Though I have only seen a tiny fraction of it myself, here’s where I’ve had reliably contained workdays: 1) Machine learning systems for internal Ops processes, we technically had on call rotation but I never heard of anyone being paged at a terrible hour 2) Data engineering for strategic dashboards, where “I will fix it when I get in tomorrow“ is totally fine 3) A cross geography team who is clients are in my time zone, which set the norm that the other people had to shift their working hours instead (I’m not saying that this is globally optimal, but they knew what they were signing up for, and I can be confident this pattern will persist)
	  Each has their own trade-offs, but my point is that you can find options anywhere along some dimension if you keep looking
	- Medium sized companies (100-300 engineers) usually have really excellent work life balance in my experience. Remote work has made meetings a bit trickier - try to find an employer who aims to have folk in nearby timezones.
	  This is definitely possible, though.
	  Regarding on-call: Work for internal tools teams at companies that aren't really worldwide. Internal tools teams, either developer or business facing, usually don't have much in terms of off-hours on-call. On-call expectations are determined more by the product you're delivering than the company culture.
	- I'm in a large corporate (Microsoft) and in my new'ish team (under Office) we have very few meetings (compared to before, approx 1h a day) and no late-night ones.
	  It really depends on what you do - one of the reasons I'm an IC and not a manager is to reduce the number of meetings (when I managed, even at startups it was always a lot of meetings which were needed/required).
	- Have a few questions, and some ideas.. may or may not help :) But definitely some food for thought and introspection.
	  Lately, I feel exhausted with all the late night meetings thats required of me at work
	  How long has this been going ? If it has been a couple months then I would recommend waiting it out tbh. In my experience, ideally the anxiety levels eventually fall off in roughly logarithmic decay ie the worst bits are in the beginning and after that it may be possible to find a structure/pattern to feel comfortable in (or another very highly likely outcome is that the frog will get boiled... ie you will decide to leave)
	  Do these meetings result in some action items at the end ?
	  If every single one of these meetings result in action items, different ones each time ? Then something is fundamentally wrong (either in the process, or in the software solution or both) that needs fixing and it needs to be established how that can be fixed AND why it has NOT been fixed as yet ? That is where your leadership role will come in handy.
	  I feel so burned out and anxious all the time, not because of overwork, but due to a lack of formal structure in my work day.
	  If you are in a leadership role then I am guessing you are not required to deliver story points by writing code ? The only other formal structure outside of coding, reviewing, merging, testing cycle is sadly... meetings. (Takes me back to my earlier question, are meetings resulting in action items ?)
	  I'm thinking of starting out on my own someday
	  Even that path is not guaranteed to bring structure, unless when Gavin Belson calls and you decide to take the 10 million straight away and reject Peter Gregory's counter (sorry, that is a Silicon Valley S1, E1 reference) and that depends on if you have an idea/MVP worth that bidding... otherwise observing other founders I know personally, they are in for a marathon (possibly triathlon) and the returns/pay-off is a long way in the future and structure not guaranteed.
	  and work was monotonous bug fixing, but I felt much more at peace since work was always predictable most of the time
	  But the pay was average at best ! No one wants that tbh.
	  I would suggest that try and find out where the inefficiencies are which require these meetings (besides the timezone differences) and use your leadership role to work towards fixing those. If however it is a dead-zone then work towards establishing that is indeed a dead-zone and then leave... don't take an uninformed terminal decision
	- is definitely possible, but it depends on what you do, on your company culture, on the legal framework, and how easy it is to replace you. You can do one of three things:
	  1) Endure in your current position, not making any changes, and live with it. 2) Leave and find something else. 3) Try to change things in the company you are currently working. If that does not work, see 1 or 2.
	  Here's how I do option 3:
	  I have, from day one, always recorded my work time and kept a kind of diary in my own independent system. Keeping an independent record is valuable. Without data, there is no argument in negotiations (setting boundaries, salary, company paying courses or books...). Also track whenever you need to work on some completely new topic.
	  The employer can of course say that your data may be untrustworthy. Such responses try to divert your attention and keep you from recording. You should still do it. Aim for 5 minutes, possibly 10, every other day, where you record what you did. Aim for another 20 minutes each week (I use saturday or sunday) to aggregate your findings (weekly works well for me).
	  In any negotiation, you should bring up your conclusions. They might "performance evaluate" you, you will professionally provide them with feedback of substance. And this is where you can set boundaries, ask for books, courses, more salary and more. Provide a perspective backed by your data.* If they grant you something, ask "can I have that in writing?" if it is appropriate.
	  After you have done this once or twice, you can gauge whether it is a lost cause (they just do not care — then consider, strongly, to find something else) or if you helped your situation.
	  For me, it worked very well. I have no company phone. I am not working on call. Meetings are scheduled regularly, during my work hours, which are an established boundary (with some leeway though). My weekends and my evenings are sacred.
	  *) Here are some tips:
	  1) Be aware that managers wish their rear ends covered. 2) Do not engage in blatant, harsh criticism. Phrase it like suggestions: "we might do better if we could somehow..." or "we could prevent situations like this in the future if we...". 3) Never join into ad-hominem talk. Even if you share your co-workers or manager's opinion when they riff on somebody, criticize situations, not people. 4) Never falsify your own records (never lie to them when presenting your conclusions); if trust in your data is actively destroyed by you, there is no coming back. 5) If someone does something well, do say so. If things go well, say so. "I have noticed that X does not happen any more, it's great!" 6) It is a normal side effect that you might actually become interested in your company's well-being if you do the above. You are becoming somebody they wish to keep. 7) YOUR BOSS IS NOT YOUR FRIEND. NEITHER ARE YOUR CO-WORKERS. Always be aware of that.
	  These are my experiences. They might not work for you, and if so, I am sorry.
	  Best of luck to you!
	- work at a distributed company with teammates all over the world and the founders in the US, while I'm in Europe. My meetings are often in the late afternoon or evening for this reason, which I've grown to really enjoy. Here's what I find helps:
	  * As a company, we've largely leaned into asynchronous communication and many/most things just don't need a meeting.
	  * The company and team are aware that we have people everywhere, and try to find reasonable hours for meetings. Next week, a meeting ending at 18.30 my time is the latest meeting I have. Nobody expects me to be present for very late meetings in my time zone (though if it was unavoidable I would still join).
	  * I try to bundle my meetings on the same day. I'd rather have a few meetings back to back that go later rather than have meetings in the afternoon/evening on every day of the week. This works for me for early meetings as well, when they do come up: I just prefer to have as many days as possible completely meeting-free. If a new mandatory recurring meeting is scheduled on one of my "meeting-free" days, I see if I can reshuffle my calendar to bring those blocks of meetings together again. Because there are not many recurring meetings, this is often possible.
	  * I've marked "Ideal meeting hours" in my calendar on my three "meeting-preferred" days, and those meeting hours go from later afternoon to evening in my time zone. This allows my teammates to schedule impromptu meetings on days that still suit me best (whenever possible, which is often).
	  * I think of my morning-early afternoon hours as my focused work hours because I rarely have meetings then, and accept that late afternoons are likely to be more hand-wavy and talky. This also allows me to mentally prepare for synchronous interaction in advance and not feel like I'm just hopping in and out of meetings all the time. On days when I have evening meetings coming up, I've learned to be OK with starting a bit later or taking a longer lunch. My day is simply offset to accommodate for the meeting times, not extended (at least that's the attempt, I'm not always successful with this).
	  * I make it very clear to my manager that I like minimizing meetings and having more time for focused work, and prefer async communication. Some people are just more into meetings and feel that seeing someone face to face works best for them, and I make it clear that while of course I'll attend whatever meetings are needed, I am not one of those people who ever _prefers_ a meeting over other options.
	  I realize some or all of the above could be more complicated in a manager position, but in a well set up distributed team I think it should be manageable to avoid burning out both ICs and managers like this.