title:: Ask HN: How to Master Verbal Communication? | Hacker News (highlights)
author:: [[aristofun]]
full-title:: "Ask HN: How to Master Verbal Communication? | Hacker News"
category:: #articles
url:: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32961885

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- hree things: 1. Practice talking out loud, possibly in front of a mirror. Hear the sounds of the words as they leave your mouth. Speech is a function of motor processing that can be improved with practice like any other muscle memory.  2. There is a time aspect to speech, like music. Once speech has left your mouth in front of an audience you cannot take it back. It is spent, like time. Think about it like plumbing, like the words are sewage. Your mind runs about 2.5x faster than your mouth. Stay calm and be very deliberate with each of your words. If your mind runs out of control the words cannot escape fast enough and things get backed up. Keep a slow constant rhythm just to get your words out perfectly. Once you master confidence with your speech your faster mind allows you to think ahead to the next wonderful thoughts while your mouth is speaking.  3. Use your education to influence your spike vocabulary. This sounds obvious, but it isn’t. You must reinforce your spoken words with the strengths of your advanced writing skills to ensure your statements are clear, concise, and logically connected. This takes practice and it all comes down to confidence.
	- The most important thing about communication is to be aware that these three things might not be the same: - what you intend to say  - what you actually communicate  - what the other person takes away from what you said  If you say a factually true thing in a very insecure way for example, the other side might not be convinced. If you mean to say something, but always find yourself to lack the words to communicate what you wanna say, chances are that what you actually communicated was not the thing you intended. It can also be that everything you say is alright, but your articulation and levels are off (too silent, too loud, slow, fast, unclear etc).  As with any thing you want to get better in the first step is to figure out which thing specifically needs improvement. A good way to do this is to record yourself and listen to it.