title:: Gen Z Is Overestimating the Average Starting Salary by $50K, Survey Finds | Hacker News (highlights)
author:: [[Vaslo]]
full-title:: "Gen Z Is Overestimating the Average Starting Salary by $50K, Survey Finds | Hacker News"
category:: #articles
url:: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32609445

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- retrac 2 hours ago | prev | next [–]  > Current graduates are simply asking for their compensation to reflect the cost of living in the United States. If the entire GDP of the USA, after taxes, were simply taken (about $15 trillion) and equally distributed among the ~210 million working age adults of the United States, each would receive about $70,000 a year.  If the 70 million university graduates were each paid a handsome and deserved $150,000 (hey, that $100k's only the start, right?!) that would be about 10 trillion for them, and the remaining 140 million Americans would collectively get about 5 trillion, or an average of about $35,000 each.  America is not actually infinitely wealthy, and a fair and just society requires some hard thought about how ultimately limited wealth gets distributed.  reply    AlphaOne1 1 hour ago | parent | next [–]  yes, but I think we need to start discussing what value college is actually bringing to society. Many of these majors do not contribute directly to wealth growth (but teach 'skills' such as critical thinking etc.) Higher education has no incentive to lower prices because they carry none of the risk if a student defaults. Even worse, there is no guarantee that students will be financially successful after graduation and they are still responsible for the debt if they are not successful. I don't blame students for being resentful but I think the resentment needs to be directed at the correct source of the problem: higher education, rather than blaming businesses for not paying enough money to pay off a 100K student loan debt. I think it is a tragedy that we live in a society where you are viewed as 'less than' if one does not go to college. This view takes advantage of our emotions and leads some to go to college without a plan and load up on debt without a clear plan on what they will do with their life. Just to be clear, some people should definitely go to college but the current situation kids being told practically from birth (my evidence is the popularity of 529 funds parents/grandparents set up) that they need to attend college is ridiculous.