title:: Mandated diversity statement drives Jonathan Haidt to quit academic society | Hacker News (highlights)
author:: [[mpweiher]]
full-title:: "Mandated diversity statement drives Jonathan Haidt to quit academic society | Hacker News"
category:: #articles
url:: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33053149

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- The irony of “anti racism” is that its core goal of racial preferences is one championed mainly by white elite administrators. Let’s be clear: most minorities oppose explicit racial preferences, including Black people: https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2019/05/08/america...  In a recent example, the California ballot measure that would have legalized racial preferences in the state failed overwhelmingly, including in every majority Hispanic county in the state.  But explicit racial preferences are at the core of anti racism as Kendi formulates it:  > The only remedy to racist discrimination is antiracist discrimination. The only remedy to past discrimination is present discrimination. The only remedy to present discrimination is future discrimination.  Why does this hold so much appeal? Because the audience of Kendi’s book isn’t minorities, it’s white people. And white people who dominate university faculties and professional organizations love this because it empowers them.  For one thing, it empowers them to use race as a club against other white people.  For another, it gives them tremendous power to shape minority culture. They have the power to select the brown people who will “represent” their whole group. Want a Muslim American professor, but don’t like what Islam has to say about women or homosexuality? Easily handled. The white faculty in charge can just pick a Muslim who agrees with white people about those things instead of other Muslims. And for good measure they can be made to sign a diversity statement. No wonder it’s the dream for Elizabeth Warren types.