- ## 🔖 Articles
	- [Learn Exponentially](https://omnivore.app/me/learn-exponentially-183bd8decb8)
	  collapsed:: true
	  site:: [Save All](https://saveall.ai/blog/learn-exponentially)
	  date_saved:: [[Oct 9th, 2022]]
		- >> For some adults, reading is a self-reinforcing learning loop.
		  The more you learn from reading, the better you become at reading and so the more you learn from reading.
		  This is however a very slow process. One study implies that in the best case it takes adults
		   10 years of reading 1 hour a day to get twice as effective at reading.
		  Even if this is technically learning exponentially, the improvement rate is so slow that the process is indistinguishable from a linear one. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/learn-exponentially-183bd8decb8#b67184a1-8311-4114-a835-ceecdeaf5661)
		- >> As explained in Learning is Remembering, we generally forget ~90% of what we learn within a month and we’d be far more intelligent if we forget less. The less we forget, the less we will be constrained by the limits of our working memory and the more intelligent, creative, and effective we will be.
		  One way of remembering more is by using spaced repetition.
		  Spaced repetition stops you forgetting things by systematically reminding you of them over time at the most efficient moments.
		  Using spaced repetition to remember some information you’ve learned might look like this: [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/learn-exponentially-183bd8decb8#e0b1e42e-6021-4ab1-a972-5e959f4c21db)
		- >> The difference is extraordinary even when looking only 5 years ahead. Use spaced repetition over a lifetime and you’ll be hundreds of times more knowledgeable.
		  
		  Hmm... can you really estimate learning speed like that?
		  
		  The assumptions used to estimate the difference are fair and you can look at them here. Almost none of them matter though anyway. The only thing that matters is:
		   reading takes years to double in effectiveness whereas spaced repetition takes only days.
		  
		  Over the long-run, this makes spaced repetition far more efficient no matter how you model it. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/learn-exponentially-183bd8decb8#212ab536-9e4d-4549-ad33-956bdfa2e26b)
	- [The Complete Strength Training Guide](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b)
	  collapsed:: true
	  site:: [strongerbyscience.com](https://www.strongerbyscience.com/complete-strength-training-guide)
	  author:: Greg Nuckols
	  date_saved:: [[Oct 3rd, 2022]]
		- >> 1. Big muscles (duh).  For anyone who needs more reassuring, this guide goes into way more depth on this subject later.
		  2. Mastery of the lifts you’ll be using to demonstrate strength. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#4b49f4e6-53e6-4ec0-af5d-978c1089cd57)
		- >> 3. Healthy Joints/Connective tissue
		  The less wear and tear you have on your body, the more you’ll be able to lift, all other things being equal. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#57b59c4a-cbd8-4ed3-9346-fb3bb8d9e8e7)
		- >> For these reasons, maximizing results while minimizing injury risk is of utmost importance. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#033b68a5-d417-4463-b89a-ecd73d3ce683)
		- >> 4. Age
		  There are three key advantages to being young:
		  Your nervous system is a bit more excitable and works a bit faster, meaning you can reach maximal muscular contraction faster.  This is more important for power-dependent sports (like weightlifting) than maximal force dependent sports (like powerlifting), but it plays a role in all of them.  Also, your nervous system is more plastic when you’re young, meaning you’ll be able to learn and master movements faster (and possibly to a greater absolute degree).
		  You have a bit more of the protein elastin in your tendons, so they’ll be able to store a bit more elastic energy (giving you a more powerful “bounce” out of the hole at the bottom of a squat).
		  You simply recover from hard training faster.  You have higher testosterone levels, you sleep better and release more total growth hormone at night, and a multitude of other factors that help you be better able to handle high training volumes, recover faster, and progress quicker. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#1a672e8a-0c76-449e-adda-de53375cbb6e)
		- >> Big muscles
		  Mastery of the lifts
		  Healthy joints
		  Age/minimizing the time it takes to get there [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#b1b58820-89c5-45c4-92df-917d7cd0866d)
		- >> What obstacles standing between me and my end goal are hindering me the most right now? [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#d973a9e9-2007-4532-b9ee-f1609f076b52)
		- >> Asking what factors are hindering you the most right now keeps you from chasing 1,000 different goals at once (which gets you nowhere), and helps you make progress at the fastest rate possible by focusing you on winning the biggest battles that give you the highest rate of return. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#e50873ea-0a98-4797-8618-06e46081f377)
		- >> For new lifters, those factors are:
		  Buy-in/habit formation
		  Proficiency with the movements
		  Body/muscular awareness
		  Readiness to train and recover [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#a45bb854-7225-4ace-adee-1ae42d343c54)
		- >> If you’re going to get anywhere as a lifter, you have to be willing to put in the work for years.  A lot of years. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#24dca602-0586-4961-8378-8e71002145e0)
		- >> most people who start an exercise program end up quitting within the first year, and I’m sure many of them were just as well-intentioned as you are. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#a8942804-1130-4bf1-b801-75c7975c38ff)
		- >> You need to enjoy your training.  This is a key piece most people miss.  Sticking with something is all about the things that make you want to continue outweighing the things that make you want to quit (motivation &gt; obstacles).  Motivations can be intrinsic (coming from inside you) or extrinsic (coming from outside factors). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#097911ec-5735-4778-9d00-c05633f5c325)
		- >> When you’re first starting out, you’ll gain muscle and strength doing almost anything; the stimulus is so new, your body is simply going to respond strongly to it, even if it’s not the “optimal” stimulus.  The most important thing is that it’s something you enjoy and can stick with, and that physiologically it’s “good enough.” [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#0c25db05-c831-4c68-9145-e443cf65531e)
		- >> The practice must be deep and purposeful.
		  You can’t simply go through the motions.  Practice starts before the set.  Visualize how the set is supposed to look and feel, trying to capture as many details as possible: how the bar will feel on your back or in your hands, how you’ll set up, how it will feel to move the load, etc.  Initially you may not be able to capture too much in your visualization, but this is a skill that will improve over time. As you approach the bar, have one cue in mind.  Don’t try to “think your way through the rep.”  Just focus on one thing that will help your performance. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#69155ee7-d8fe-47ea-bc0f-93cd7708b585)
		- >> it improves your performance, stick with that cue until you master it and can move on to another.  If it doesn’t choose another cue.  Be aware of how the reps feel as you’re doing them, but don’t obsess about it; use that awareness in the next step.  After the set, analyze it.  How did it feel?  How did it look (again, take video if possible)?  What could be improved upon, and what cue could help you accomplish that improvement? Repeat that process for each set. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#ba113787-4a5f-4835-8a1e-8ca1f6c040bb)
		- >> The weights you’re using should be light enough that you’re in control of the load and can focus more on properly performing the movement than on avoiding death. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#53f5fc29-40a6-4559-ba66-76d755fe4c41)
		- >> However, the weights should also be heavy enough that it’s still the same basic movement (a heavy barbell squat is pretty dissimilar to an unloaded bodyweight squat). This generally means using a load between 60-80% of your 1rm.  Of course, if you’re a new lifter, you have no idea what your 1rm is.  So the basic rule of thumb is that you should use something between the heaviest weight that you feel very comfortable and confident with, and about 15% less than that. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#6a40c376-a0b9-47ba-a070-ad2455a04020)
		- >> You should stay a long way away from failure on your sets, at least early on.  
		  The more you have to strain to complete a rep, the more your form will break down, at least until you’ve gained proficiency with the motor pattern. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#ff74f691-3277-4759-ac7b-93dbc6b95a8f)
		- >> Let’s say you’re doing sets of 5, and the first three are beautiful, flawless reps, the fourth is a little shaky, and the fifth looks distinctly different from the first three.  You’re ingraining the proper motor pattern you want to learn with 60% of your work, and something else with the other 40%.  That makes it take longer to gain proficiency with the proper technique. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#614f35ce-29b6-4915-85fc-7ea9eaefa33c)
		- >> You should stay at least 3 reps away from failure (to complete a lift) as a new lifter, and almost always stop your sets before (or, if you push a rep too far, as soon as) your form starts to change at all. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#72252e89-f029-483b-b876-3ff6dc5c944f)
		- >> Generally, training each lift 2-4 times per week will give you the best bang for your buck. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#2737aeaf-dadf-4dc8-b89b-795a6941524d)
		- >> Why?  Two reasons:  1.) You need enough opportunities to practice the movements.  Practice is key for learning anything new.  2.) You can simply do more! You’d have to really crush yourself to get in as much work on a lift in one day as you could in three fairly challenging days. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#d1de6c95-48c9-4552-acd7-9c6070dd5ab3)
		- >> So why cap it at 4?  Quite frankly, for a new lifter, you’re probably not going to benefit from doing much more than that.  You could practice the movements a *bit* more frequently, but probably not enough to make a tremendous difference. More importantly, muscle protein synthesis stays elevated for new lifters for quite a long time: 36-48 hours is pretty typical. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#7c84d2ef-f70d-4c1b-a0ab-3c4ca382179e)
		- >> Kinesthetic awareness is just a fancy way of saying “knowing where your body is in space.”  Developing this ability helps you do two things:
		  Better understand when the movements you’re doing “feel” right or not.  This feedback helps you make adjustments to perform the movements better.
		  Help external cues work better.  External cues are those that focus on the outcome of the movement (i.e. for bench, you may say “throw the bar through the ceiling,” rather than “squeeze your pecs”), and are generally more effective for enhancing performance.  The better you understand how it feels for your body to move through space, the more sense external cues will make, the better you’ll be able to apply them, and the more they’ll help your performance. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#562dda8a-6c66-438e-b674-3ec1c4f4d3ec)
		- >> The best way to accomplish this?  I’ve found challenging bodyweight movements to be the most effective in teaching overall body awareness. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#9a46c3be-16d3-4938-b2b1-ee92555ae067)
		- >> Here are some suggestions of bodyweight movements that can help (start with the ones you can do): push-ups (working toward single arm pushups), dips, inverted rows, pull-ups, monkey bars, planks, rolling of all sorts, single leg RDLs (weighted or unweighted), lunges and split squats (at a speed you can control), single leg balance drills, single leg hops, L-sits, suitcase carries, waiter’s carries, single arm overhead press, bent press, and single arm overhead squat. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#d304272e-db37-4a17-822f-b199a3330e3e)
		- >> There are certainly many more that you could try, but choosing 2-3 from that list per session, done for 2 sets of as many reps as you can manage at a controlled pace (not rushing through the motions) generally does the trick. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#2e169503-de1c-4be2-8a10-c51866653393)
		- >> It helps you identify your weak link in a movement if a particular muscle group isn’t “pulling its weight.” If you don’t know how it feels when a particular muscle contracts, it’s hard to pick it out as the culprit when a lift doesn’t feel right. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#3b5bc96c-f382-4fbf-886e-252c2255d63e)
		- >> It makes internal cues more effective.  Internal cues are ones that refer to what a particular part of your body is doing during a lift (i.e. “squeeze your pecs,” not “throw the bar through the ceiling”). Though internal cues are generally less effective than external cues, they still have their place, especially if you’re working on correcting a weak link in a movement, and you’re trying to re-integrate a muscle group into a movement pattern where it hasn’t been pulling its weight. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#97d85ad4-4211-4875-a717-05d69603d7a1)
		- >> Just like the movements to build kinesthetic awareness, the goal isn’t necessarily boatloads of sweet gainz (since compound exercises like squats, presses, deadlifts, rows, pull-ups, etc., do just as good of a job at building muscle mass, especially in new lifters), but rather to make it easier to learn the lifts you’re trying to build proficiency in, and to make it easier to assess problems and correct your lifts down the road. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#41869993-c3aa-4379-b55a-653c23527165)
		- >> Train Hard and Recover
		  The last key factor for new lifters is developing the ability to train hard and recover from training.  This is often termed GPP (general physical preparedness), but most people only think of conditioning when they think of GPP.  Though that’s important, there are a few other factors, so I prefer the more encompassing term “work capacity”: [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#861daaa5-a447-4283-8050-0d9cd9cc1f1f)
		- >> composition.
		  A high body fat percentage generally goes hand in hand with poor insulin sensitivity, and for every pound of tissue gained, a smaller percentage of it will be muscle, and a greater percentage of it will be fat. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#25e6602a-3d0c-4ad9-afec-77a0c200f466)
		- >> that.  Higher body fat levels are generally accompanied by lower testosterone and higher estrogen levels in men (since fat tissue contains the enzyme aromatase, which converts testosterone to estrogen. It should also be noted that the causality here is bidirectional; with low testosterone, it’s easier to gain fat, and more fat further lowers testosterone); lower insulin sensitivity, especially in muscle, will mean more of the energy you consume is stored in fat tissue, and there’s mounting evidence that the low-grade inflammation associated with obesity can decrease anabolic (muscle-building) signaling and increase catabolic (muscle wasting) signaling in your muscles (and a second source). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#b1f7a285-942b-406c-99ef-3a7e2f6db632)
		- >> Quite simply, you’ll respond better to training and recover better from training if you’re leaner.  If you’re a male over 20% bodyfat, or a female over 30% body fat, getting down to the 12-15%/20-25% range will make it easier to train hard, recover well, and build more muscle and strength. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#bed2dfd6-9f00-45ab-90ff-fd11b08a4834)
		- >> Aerobic conditioning.
		  I’ve already written a pretty in-depth piece on the importance of aerobic conditioning for strength athletes, so rather than rehash that here, I’d encourage you to check it out. The degree to which you need to do any dedicated conditioning work varies person to person (some people just naturally have higher aerobic fitness), but a general rule of thumb is that if your resting heart rate is in the high 50s or low 60s and you’re under 200lbs, or it’s in the mid 60s and you’re over 200lbs, you probably have a sufficient aerobic base for powerlifting. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#bf9a9c0e-ba18-4749-95fc-6036ab98368e)
		- >> This is also a topic that is impossible to address in a single paragraph.  I’d highly suggest the book “The Renaissance Diet” by my friend Dr. Mike Israetel for an in-depth treatment of the subject. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#2cc41aed-69d3-41f7-a08d-6d5a09ce8f5f)
		- >> This primarily means sleep and stress management.  Lack of sleep and increased stress decrease how well you can burn fat, build muscle, and recover from training.  I’ll address this is much more depth at the end of this article. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#dff8d905-b61f-49e8-bad7-1eef6526930f)
		- >> How you work toward the goal of being able to train harder and recover better depends largely on where you’re at right now.  If you’re portly, then you should try to lose fat ASAP, whereas if you’re already lean, you shouldn’t try to lose any weight. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#6a71a3c1-35cf-4ab5-b8e7-5676d90535da)
		- >> A word of reassurance if you’re overweight to start with:  You really don’t need to worry about how losing weight will impact your initial strength/muscular progress.  Though new muscle is most easily added in a caloric surplus, it’s entirely possible to gain muscle and strength while losing fat.  This is especially true for people who are both new to lifting and overweight to begin with.  If you set your calories to lose about 1% of your bodyweight per week, consume enough protein (about .82g/lb, or 1.8g/kg), and train hard, then you should have no issues gaining muscle and strength as you lose weight. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#f486eb26-dad8-4130-beb2-96c38dd79c24)
		- >> A major mistake new lifters make is sticking with beginner programs for too long.  Your two most important objectives are to buy into the process and make training a habit, and to become proficient with the movements.  The third objective (building kinesthetic and muscular awareness) helps with the second objective, and the fourth (ability to train hard and recover well) sets the stage for future training to be more productive. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#b0addbde-a7bd-4cf8-844b-9af0e4ce04e1)
		- >> Most of the strength gains you make on a beginner’s program come from neurological improvements – your nervous system learning the lifts you’re performing.  When you first start lifting, you may have enough muscle to squat 300lbs already, but you can only squat 135 because your nervous system doesn’t “understand” the lift yet; you haven’t built that proficiency. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#42779ccd-ac9e-48ae-9c58-1690ecc4e1b2)
		- >> Over the span of a few months, you should be able to add weight to the bar at least weekly, and your squat may skyrocket into the 300s.  Your muscle mass may have only increased by 10-20%, but your squat went up to a much greater degree because your nervous system adapts to stressors much faster than your muscles do. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#842c8665-8611-4585-b51e-f703eaf93d55)
		- >> Increase muscle mass
		  Continue increasing your work capacity [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#860a7952-9463-418d-8ac6-cb212e6ec87c)
		- >> Why some people lift more and others lift less
		  There are, by my count, six factors that largely determine how much weight you can lift right now:
		  Muscle size
		  Muscle fiber types
		  Segment lengths (height, limb lengths, torso length, etc.)
		  Motor learning factors
		  Motivation/arousal/fatigue
		  Muscle origins and insertions [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#2779b0f5-cfbf-4cd9-8d26-193ec9fe6a17)
		- >> However, the maximal force production for a given area of Type I fibers is very similar to the maximal force production for a given area of Type II fibers.  Depending on what study or textbook you look at, there may be up to a 10% difference.  However, this difference doesn’t mean much in the real world since all your muscles have a mix of Type I and Type II fibers.
		  If you compared someone with 70% Type II fibers to someone with 70% type I fibers (both of whom would be outliers), the difference in maximal force production would only be about 4%. Type II fibers simply reach maximal force output sooner, making them better for power-dependent activities like sprinting or jumping. Powerlifting, though (contrary to what the name may lead you to believe), is NOT a power-dependent sport. Power output actually peaks around 30-60%1rm and is quite low with maximal loads. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#a109fc22-0d66-4f62-acc7-37de320e24da)
		- >> All of which means, fiber type distribution doesn’t influence how much you can lift very much at all.
		  Two [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#338c333c-52f1-4a18-944e-845b7c87b8ef)
		- >> Although there is some variability in relative segment lengths, it’s usually less than 10% except for extreme outliers (so that guy who squats twice as much as you doesn’t do so because you have long femurs. If yours were the same length, he may squat 1.8x as much as you instead of 2x as much). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#8dc7592a-b403-43eb-a8bf-ea61af3172b4)
		- >> As far as height goes, required torque increases with height, but so does overall muscle mass.  The scaling is allometric, not linear, so shorter people still have a bit of an advantage, but it’s taken into account with the Wilks formula, which levels the playing field for shorter/lighter lifters and taller/heavier lifters. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#efebf5f4-8361-498f-a2b3-26875ffe9fce)
		- >> On the whole, segment lengths do affect performance in each lift a bit, but not as much as people who use them as a crutch would like to believe (usually a difference of less than 10%). Furthermore, a disadvantage in one lift is often an advantage in another. For example, long arms may make bench press a bit harder, but they’re beneficial for deadlift performance. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#028cc7b4-d5d6-471b-875b-72e02df33899)
		- >> The primary reason for that is difference in muscle attachments. A muscle that attaches further from a joint is capable of producing more torque at that joint. Our muscles, for the most part, attach very close to the joints they move.
		  Grab at point B if you want to actually get the job done. Grab at point A if you’re trying to get a sick forearm pump.
		  This is good for allowing large ranges of motion (because a given amount of movement at a joint requires less tissue extensibility), but means that the force (linear) our muscles produce isn’t translated very efficiently into [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#a52ad51a-8797-4174-a94a-b58d9f2d0753)
		- >> Humans have some variability in muscle attachment points, and this variability matters far more than variability in segment lengths, because a small change can make a big difference. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#c9e32dab-8b5b-4682-954e-28d6d279cdf7)
		- >> Let’s say the distance between the hip joint and the origin of the hamstrings is about 3 inches on average. That extra inch means they produce ~33% more hip extension torque if their hamstrings contract with the same force.
		  Because muscles attach so close to joints (usually not more than 2-4 inches away), small [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#f82701bd-ba0c-4715-8707-851094c2d0f2)
		- >> your pecs insert farther down your humerus, you’re more apt to be a big bencher. If your lats insert farther down your humerus, you’re more apt to be able to do some really heavy weighted pullups. If your patellar tendon inserts a bit farther down your tibia, you’ll probably be able to squat more. You know that guy who can curl a ton without impressive biceps? I’d bet he has biceps that insert farther down his radius. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#ed6da447-a096-4874-a692-24af3efe7ef6)
		- >> Here’s a general outline for how to accomplish that:
		  Ramp up your training intensity for the main lifts a bit (doing most of your training with 75-85% of your max, with very little work below 70% and very little above 90% unless peaking for a meet) to continue improving your technique and skill lifting heavy weights. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#2192bc90-2ae6-40cf-9c69-b05394cc8174)
		- >> Include more variation for your main lifts.  This will allow you to push your lifts hard, while avoiding monotony and overuse injuries from sticking with the exact same movements all the time.  Paused squat, front squat, close grip bench, bench from pins, opposite stance deadlifts, deficit deadlifts, etc. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#0ea52cb2-db5a-45e6-a9f2-65349c704c3f)
		- >> Keep volume for your main lifts low to moderate, and stay at least 1-2 reps shy of failure at all times (avoiding technical failure).  You don’t need a ton of high quality, heavy work to maintain and improve neural factors, but getting the bulk of your training volume from your main lifts will generally beat you up a bit more, and limit how much total training volume you can handle per session and per week. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#2ee4a216-e2c3-42db-af17-706d1527d1a5)
		- >> Get the bulk of your training volume from accessory lifts for all major muscle groups, with sets of 6-15 reps, training each muscle/movement 2-3 times per week for 4-6 sets (or 40-70 total reps) per session.  I recommend accessory lifts over lighter sets of squat, bench, and deadlift to cut down on risk of overuse injuries, and to keep training specificity high for the main lifts (since lifting heavy stuff for low reps and lighter stuff for higher reps are different skills, you don’t want to “water down” the motor learning you’re doing your main lifts, unless you’re splitting your training into more distinct phases, as we’ll discuss later). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#cc1a2fe2-47f7-404f-bb23-ffb5f36c8069)
		- >> Plan for weight increases and PR attempts for the big lifts on a realistic time scale.  At first, use 4 week training blocks, shooting for small PRs every 4 weeks.  When you aren’t hitting PRs consistently on that time scale any more, transition to 8 week cycles, then 12.  You should be able to PR every 12 weeks (during bulk phases) throughout the duration of your time doing intermediate, hypertrophy-focused training. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#b6b39bc0-5957-4962-b213-ce754257872d)
		- >> Periodization isn’t overly important for hypertrophy, but varying your training a bit simply helps keep workouts feeling fresh. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#8f9254d5-8928-4729-baf0-4e8c3e4dd6cc)
		- >> Split your training into bulking and cutting phases.  This generally allows you to gain muscle at a faster overall rate than attempting to gain it with minimal body fat fluctuations.  Aim to gain about half a pound per week until your body fat percentage reaches about 20-22% for men, and 28-30% for women, then slowly cut back down to 10-15% for men, and 20-25% for women, losing about 1% of your bodyweight per week.  I’d highly recommend this article for more in-depth details. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#aa347b2f-7424-4053-beba-36dc6dc6ff82)
		- >> Don’t tie up too much of your time in training to peak for competitions.  A simple 3-4 week peak will be enough for most people to hit very solid lifts on the platform since you’re training the main lifts fairly heavy throughout this period. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/the-complete-strength-training-guide-stronger-by-science-1839ec92c4b#8d293536-5cbc-4de0-a2ad-2ec6fccbdd9a)
	- [Everything There is to Know About High-Load versus Low-Load Training](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8)
	  collapsed:: true
	  site:: [strongerbyscience.com](https://www.strongerbyscience.com/high-versus-low-load)
	  author:: Michael Zourdos
	  date_saved:: [[Oct 2nd, 2022]]
		- >> Five years ago, an often-cited meta-analysis from Schoenfeld et al (3) found that strength gains were augmented with high- (&gt;60% of one-repetition maximum (1RM)) versus low- (≤60% of 1RM) load training, but muscle growth was similar between training loads. Since then, more data (4, 5) seem to confirm those findings, suggesting that lifters can choose their preferred loading paradigm (high or low loads) and maximize hypertrophy. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#d6aa2a4e-29bb-4f86-b9f7-237f1c9e0ead)
		- >> men reported high session rating of perceived exertion (RPE) scores and greater ratings of “displeasure” after low-load (25-30RM) than after high-load (8-12RM) training to failure. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#51e7d1d2-be22-43c4-a655-f6b66abf7455)
		- >> The reviewed study (1, 2) split 23 untrained women into high- (n = 12, 80% of 1RM) and low- (n = 11, 30% of 1RM) load training groups for eight weeks. Both groups performed 2-3 sets of machine-based exercises (leg extensions, seated shoulder presses, leg curls, and lat pulldowns) to failure twice per week. The researchers assessed body composition and 1RM strength on each exercise before and after the training program. Effort-based RPE was assessed after each set, and sRPE was assessed immediately after each session. Feeling scale ratings (-5 – very bad to +5 very good) and intention to exercise within the next week and next month (0% – no intention to 100% – strong intention) were assessed immediately, 15 minutes, and 60 minutes after each training session. Findings showed no significant differences between groups for strength gains, body composition changes, set RPE, sRPE, feeling scale ratings, or intention to exercise at any time point. Set RPE and sRPE scores tended to increase over time across both groups. Feeling scale ratings were positively related to intention to exercise at various points throughout the study (i.e., more pleasure related to greater intention to exercise again). These findings suggest that untrained lifters can gain strength to a similar degree with both high- and low-load training. Further, these individuals had similar perceptual and affective responses to training, suggesting that long-term training adherence may not be compromised with low-load training. However [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#581c24b7-4a0f-4825-a39e-07edc0282f78)
		- >> subjects perform leg extensions not to failure or to failure at 30% of 1RM for eight weeks. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#64d960f6-493b-42ee-9546-7a0264d4ca79)
		- >> The researchers reported that quadriceps cross-sectional area increased by +7.7%% in the failure condition but only by 2.6% in the non-failure condition. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#32fa93e8-9ec0-4711-91ce-a64fef026f67)
		- >> untrained men bench pressing at 80% of 1RM (8 reps per set), training to failure at 40% of 1RM [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#5a2b11d6-9938-424f-ae15-e3e6ee24964e)
		- >> the 80% (+4.4mm; +14.5%) and 40% to failure (+4.9mm; +16.8%) groups tended to increase triceps muscle thickness more than the 40% not to failure group (+2.4mm; +8.1%). Therefore, based upon the findings of Lasevicius et al and Terada et al there seems to be an added benefit to low-load training when it’s performed to failure. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#799a0a0f-2f11-45a5-879b-623535638436)
		- >> In reality, there’s evidence on both sides for hypertrophy. Specifically, Schuenke et al (17) found a 25.6% and 23.4% greater increase in type I and type IIa fiber cross-sectional area, respectively, among untrained women training with 6-10RM loads than those training with 25-30RM loads. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#6ebaa229-059b-4937-a574-25a2d15157ec)
		- >> However, Franco et al (18 – MASS Review) found that untrained women gained more fat-free leg mass with 25-30 reps per set (+4.6%) than with 8-10 reps per set (+1.5%). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#e21aa5af-2111-48d0-8f6a-d9f9ad28269c)
		- >> Ikezoe et al (22) found no significant differences in quadriceps muscle thickness in healthy men after leg extension training of either 12 (sets) × 8 (reps) at 30% of 1RM versus 3 × 8 at 80% of 1RM for eight weeks. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#21a8892b-0e72-426a-a0ba-97f0eaea7d91)
		- >> women and men perform circuit training for 12 weeks. Each session consisted of four rounds of five exercises. Each round consisted of one set performed for 30 seconds at either 30% or 70% of 1RM. The researchers reported that increases in lean body mass were not significantly different between groups (30%: +1.11 kg; 70%: +1.25kg). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#f1693066-7e41-4c96-9309-185833de4596)
		- >> In brief, effort-based RPE is assessed either after every set or after the entire session (e.g., sRPE) when used in resistance training. The presently reviewed study (1) used the original Borg 6-20 scale (26); however, the Borg 0-10 scale (27) is also commonly used to assess sRPE. Both scales are anchored on the low end with a descriptor of “little to no effort” and on the high end with “maximal effort.” In general, if two protocols lead to similar hypertrophy and strength outcomes, but lifters deem that one of the protocols took less effort, then the implication is that lifters will recover more quickly from the lower effort protocol and possibly increase their long-term adherence to training. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#19f2a667-92d7-48d0-86fc-29aa70319187)
		- >> the affective response was assessed via the -5 (very bad) to +5 (very good) feeling scale. Negative ratings on the scale are seen as “displeasure” while positive ratings are viewed as a “pleasurable” experience. More broadly, feeling scale responses may encompass a variety of feelings related to mood, emotion, and someone’s general psychological state (28, 29 – MASS Review). It seems intuitive that feeling scale ratings of greater pleasure (more positive) would be related to a greater intention to exercise, and they were in the presently reviewed study. However, Ekkekakis (28) indicated in a review paper that ratings of displeasure might indicate a feeling of accomplishment and pride; thus, we shouldn’t be so quick to classify negative feeling scale ratings as a sign that the lifter wouldn’t want to continue with the training program. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#9ee492ea-9103-49d8-ac64-7e4777655fbf)
		- >> When comparing sRPE between high- and low-load training, some research has shown low-load training to elicit a greater sRPE (6, 30, 31), and some research has indicated high-load training to elicit a greater sRPE (32, 33, 34, 35). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#bca4d3cd-265f-4de3-9b03-a16376689798)
		- >> Pritchett et al (30) found that 20 recreationally trained men reported a significantly higher sRPE following three sets on six exercises to failure at 60% than at 90% of 1RM. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#afab5bcc-912a-4187-9070-da19afc03d7a)
		- >> In agreement with Prichett (30), Shimano et al (31) found that both trained and untrained individuals reported higher sRPE following one set to failure at 60% of 1RM on the squat, bench press, and curl compared to one set to failure at both 80% and 90% of 1RM. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#0e4bb069-7ab7-4454-b57e-e665899530a4)
		- >> Further, Ribeiro et al (6 – MASS Review) found that trained men reported higher sRPE, greater discomfort (on a 0-10 Likert scale), and lower feeling scale ratings (more displeasure) when following three sets to failure with a 25-30RM load on the bench press, hack squat, and lat-pulldown versus three sets to failure with an 8-12RM load. [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#0a6c46c8-6495-4386-bf93-3f2f8e31d97e)
		- >> Anderson et al (1) and Dinyer et al (2) found that long-term strength and body composition changes were not different between groups of untrained women performing low-load (30% of 1RM) and high-load (80% of 1RM) training to failure. Further, this study found that the perceptual and affective responses to high and low loads were not significantly different.  [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#9880dea9-da06-4c45-8c5c-a1328e50105a)
		- >> Researchers split untrained men into two groups. Both groups performed leg extensions, seated shoulder presses, leg curls, and lat pulldowns for eight weeks. One group performed three sets to failure at 30% of 1RM (low-load group), and the other performed three sets to failure at 80% of 1RM (high-load group). [⤴️](https://omnivore.app/me/everything-there-is-to-know-about-high-load-versus-low-load-trai-18398eee3f8#1d0a118b-c13f-4b2e-b9e6-3e0a20c72984)