title:: Two Sources of Stress that (probably) apply to you | Hacker News (highlights)
author:: [[news.ycombinator.com]]
full-title:: "Two Sources of Stress that (probably) apply to you | Hacker News"
category:: #articles
url:: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3666242

- Highlights first synced by [[Readwise]] [[Feb 20th, 2023]]
	- Stress comes from change and change means you don't know what will happen. Coincidentally, you never know in life what will happen so at worst you could be stressed to max merely for being alive. There are two approaches to this uninviting uncertainty. Either you try to block it out or you accept it as a fact of life. In the first case you want to build as many static and seemingly permanent corners in life as possible, using methods such as routines and risk-avoidance. In the latter case you set out to do whatever you must because you don't know if you'll live tomorrow and you have nothing to lose.  Most people settle with something in between. If you intend to block change, it will break through somewhere else and you suffer again and that is like patching a sinking ship. If you intend to accept change, you demand a lot from yourself and you will certainly be tried for that up to the highest standards, but you will possibly come out if not enlightened at least balanced and realistic about life.  Stress is good. It shows you're holding on to something you shouldn't be holding on to.
	- manmal on March 5, 2012 | prev | next [–]  Another source of stress is: Striving to be somewhere else. Whenever you take a shower, or eat, or lie in bed, and you feel that you ought to be somewhere else (working) that's stress. That not only applies to whereabouts, but also to situations like &quot;I should be ready with X so I can take on Y&quot;. To reduce that, you have to establish a clear declaration of working and resting time - resting means really switching off, not allowing thoughts to pull you back into work mode. EDIT: I think the word I would use for countering this type of stress is &quot;dedication&quot;.