- [[headphone-eye-mask]]
	- Circadian Rhythm is
		- the 24 hour internal clock that dictates things like hormones and energy and when we feel awake or sleepy.
		  
		  There are things we can do to support our Circadian Rhythm like:
		  
		  1) Connect with nature: get some sun ☀️ and fresh air. This means spending time outside and not just looking at the world through a window. This one seems easy but so many people don’t actually go outside and laugh, jump, run, lay in the sun!
		  
		  
		  
		  2) Skip the electronics: give your eyes, ears and brain a break from the daily digital onslaught. I know some people’s work requires electronics but even so, can you give it up 1 day per week on the weekends, when you can? Just turn them off and be still..let that calm spread through your body!
		  
		  
		  
		  3) Awaken your senses: eating a sweet Snickers bar was always a way for my father to snap out of it. Just take in the smells and sounds of your surroundings! Mix it up and use it as an excuse to wake up.
		  
		  
		  
		  4) Invigorate yourself: Take a break and move around. You don’t need to head to the gym, but simple things such as a 20-minute walk or stretching at your desk did wonders for me. I make it a point to walk or go for a toning workout 3 times a week to help wake me up. I also getaway to Florida for total r and r for a week in December and again in February when I have winter break.
		  
		  
		  
		  5) Keep awake: Try to avoid napping but if you must, make sure your naps are short and before 3 pm!