- [[newsletter/issue-13]]
	- Audio based notetaking
		- I've recently been using some of the latest AI powered speech recognition and text to speech for notetaking
		- Whisper's text to speech is extremely good
		- I've always wanted to like dictation and text to speech but they've never been accurate enough for me until now with whisper
		- Siri and Google mess up often enough and miss obscure words often enough where I tend not to use them.
		- However whisper can transcribe extremely quickly and accurately
		- With whisper, I can speak and transcribe much faster than I can type
		- Sometimes on my morning walks I do audio journaling to write down some of my thoughts and plan my day. It helps me be more consistent with journaling and planning due to the reduced friction of not having to type my thoughts by hand.
		- My method is to use the audio recording feature on the iphone and record a segment of audio.
		- I then upload the audio to logseq and use my logseq plugin to transcribe the notes.
		- The notes are often a stream of consciousness about everything I'm thinking, so sometimes I use GPT-3 to process the transcription, summarize it, and extract action items.
		- Whisper is open source so there are a number of good tools powered by whisper now
		- The logseq plugin uses the OpenAI whisper API, which runs the "large" version of whisper, which is very accurate
		- Since whisper is open source, there are also a number of apps that run whisper locally, so your data is never sent to a third party server
		- There are nice iOS apps as well as a web app
	- Text to speech
		- In addition to speech recognition, speech synthesis tools are starting to improve
		- The most realistic one I've found is ElevenLabs, which almost sounds exactly like a human. This is the first commercial tool I've seen that would be good enough to pass as human. It's really easy to use, and the API is fast enough to use for real time use cases, however it's very expensive.
		- The interesting thing about the newest models is that they insert imperfections in the generated speech audio, like breathing and saying "um", as well as varying the intonation. I don't think it sound robotic at all, compared to earlier speech synthesis tools.
		- There's also Bark, which is good and open source, but it doesn't have a commercial license.
		- There's also the older cloud provider text to speech like AWS and Google cloud. These are really cheap and easy to use, but don't sound as good as the latest generation speech generation models.