- [[newsletter/issue-13]]
  collapsed:: true
	- Speech recognition has gotten really good in the past year with recent AI advances, and I find myself using voice transcription much more often in my workflows. OpenAI's Whisper can transcribe speech extremely accurately and quickly, and I've been using it more often instead of typing.
	- For years, speech recognition technologies like Siri and Google had mediocre accuracy, often misinterpreting less common words. The frequent mess ups made me reluctant to use earlier speech transcription tools, since they required so much proof reading and editing, that it was often faster to just type.
	- Over the past year, significant progress in AI technology has greatly improved speech recognition technology. In particular, Whisper by OpenAI is extremely accurate and fast at transcribing spoken audio as text.  Earlier speech recognition systems, such as Siri and Google, often misinterpreted less common words. This resulted in frequent errors, which made using these services less efficient than manual typing, due to the extensive proofreading and editing required.
	- Now that Whisper can transcribe speech almost perfectly the first time you speak, I use it more often in my workflow. It feels like Whisper has finally crossed the accuracy threshold where it's accurate enough to be faster than typing.
	- # Audio Journaling
		- Not only is the voice transcription faster than typing, but it's really convenient to use on mobile.
		- One use case I really like to voice transcription is for audio journaling
		- On my morning walks I'll put in my airpods do my daily journaling by speaking while walking. I do a brain dump of everything I'm thinking of, what I need to do that day, random ideas, etc.
		- The audio notetaking workflow is good for
		- ## Workflow
			- My current workflow is I use the Apple Voice Memos app to take notes on my iPhone, then share the recording to the Logseq app. Then, I use the Logseq OpenAI plugin to transcribe the audio, and further process and format the transcription.
			- ### Apple Voice Memos
			- ### Logseq
			- ### Logseq Plugin Whisper
			- ### Logseq Plugin GPT
		- Thomas Frank has an interesting video on his audio notetaking workflow with notion.
		- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hCEdm9LGBb0}}
		-
	- # Voice Transcription Apps
		- Since Whisper is Open Source, there are a number of mobile apps that allow you to run Whipser locally on your phone and keep all your data private.
		- OpenAI also provides an API for transcribing audio, which is fast and cheap, but sends data over the network.
		- ### Whisper C++
			- There's an amazing repo called whisperc++, where they have an implementation of whisper that allows you to run it on many different devices, such as on your mac, your iphone, or in your browser using WebAssembly
			- https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp
		- ### Whisper Apps
			- https://audiopen.ai/
			- https://apps.apple.com/za/app/hello-transcribe/id6443919768
- [[abdul bari algorithms/greedy/prims kruskals]]
-