- [[newsletter/issue-10]]
  collapsed:: true
	- [[books read in 2022]]
	- [[logseq-openai/popup]]
		- tags:: [[blog]]
		  date::
		- Introduction
			- Hook
				- I updated the logseq openai plugin to include a popup window to perform AI tasks powered by GPT-3 in Logseq.
				- There are three modes: free-form commands, built-in action commands, user-defined commands, and a way for the community to contribute useful commands to the plugin.
			- Background
				- GPT-3 is an AI tool that allows you analyze and generate text. It can perform many different tasks, such as answering questions about a topic, writing blog posts, summarizing text, and more.
				- I've found various interesting use cases in my notetaking workflow, and it's been a useful "swiss army knife" for text.
				- The original version of this plugin was pretty basic. In the previous version, you would write a GPT-3 "prompt" inside a text block along with the input text, which would generate a response and insert it underneath your text, but I think the popup is easier to use and more convenient.
				- There have been a few "AI writer" integrations in existing tools like Notion, and many startups built around OpenAI GPT-3.
				- These tools are nice and have good user interfaces but have some limitations for personal notetaking use cases and for power users. I wanted something that was pay-as-you-go instead of subscription-based, allowed a lot of customizability, and allowed users to share best practices with each other.
				- ### Subscription
					- I have too many app subscriptions and strongly prefer a "pay as you go" model if at all possible. This plugin uses your OpenAI API key and only charges you when you run a command, so you aren't being charged if you don't use it.
					- Using OpenAI directly is much cheaper than subscribing to a third party, though it's still somewhat expensive. There are some free open source AI models, but OpenAI's model still seems to give the highest quality output. I'm spending around $5 per month with heavy usage. Many of commercial AI writing tools cost $30 to $50 per month.
				- ### Customizability
					- Many of these tools only let you use the built-in templates or commands.
					- GPT-3 can perform many tasks, and I wanted something I could customize for my very specific notetaking purposes.
					- This plugin lets you create templates for your own use cases. For example, I have custom templates for things like writing math equations or creating Chinese language flashcards with pronunciation hints.
				- ### Shareability
					- People continually develop new tricks and best practices for interacting with GPT-3. For example, people have discovered adding the phrase "Let's think step by step” improves accuracy for some use cases. I wanted to make sharing interesting use cases and best practices easy, so I created a format where people could contribute their templates to the plugin and collectively improve them.
			- Thesis
		- Conclusion
			- Summary
				- Restate thesis
				- key takeaways
			- Call to action
	- [[template/hugo template]]