- [[newsletter/issue-11]]
  collapsed:: true
	- I've been living in Hawaii for around four months now and it's been going great so far. After living in San Francisco for around 9 years, from 2013 to 2022, I was ready to try something new so my partner and I decided to move to Honolulu, Hawaii.
	- My goals are to spend a lot of time outside, get fit, learn some new skills, and work on some of my own projects.
	- My partner and I spent the last two years working from home in a small one bedroom apartment in San Francisco, which was pretty rough with both of us being on video calls all day. The lockdowns were pretty strict at one point, where we couldn't go outside anywhere without a mask, and even after a lot of the restrictions lifted, things didn't really go back to normal.
	- I loved living in San Francisco, and I miss the energy and enthusiasm which felt like it peaked around 2017. There were hordes of techies walking around in matching startup shirts and interesting events going on almost every day, but it seems like it will take a long time to get back to that, if it ever does.
	- A lot of our friends had moved away, the social groups we were a part of weren't active, and a lot of our favorite places closed down, so it didn't feel like there was much keeping us in the city. The cost of living is really in the Bay Area, so for us to get a bigger place, we would have needed to move to the suburbs, get a car, commute, etc. which didn't excite us, and we decided we weren't ready for that quite yet.
	- We didn't have any major commitments, didn't own many physical possessions, and both of us can work remotely, so it was relatively straightforward to move somewhere new.
	- ## Moving
		- Even though our circumstances made moving relatively straightforward, it was a long process to get out here, and I'm only just now starting to feel settled.
		- We had been thinking about new places to live for some time, thinking about places like San Diego, Austin, Denver, New York, Miami, and others. We visited Oahu in July, and both really loved it. We did some logistics, and decided it was totally doable for us to move here, and the idea really excited us, so we decided to make it happen.
		- First, we needed to get rid of all our stuff. We had accumulated a lot over the years, but I wasn't really attached to anything I owned. We were able to sell a lot of our things on our apartment Facebook page, which was really convenient and I felt good that our stuff would be used instead of just thrown away. Most of our furniture was cheap stuff that we picked up from people moving out of our apartment. We we able to get a junk disposal service to pick up stuff like my old desk and our bed.
		- We got a small storage container for the few things that we wanted to keep, like our TV, nice chairs. We used a service called Boombox that picked up all our stuff which we're keeping in a small storage container for ~100 a month, until we decide to really commit to a new place long term.
		- Pretty soon our apartment was completely empty, and everything we had fit into just a few suitcases. We slept on an air mattress until our move out date. It was a surprising amount of effort and exhausting to get rid of everything. Even though we had been getting rid of stuff well in advance of our move out date, we still stayed up almost all night tying up loose ends. Still, it felt incredibly good to start fresh and not be weighed down by so many physical possessions. I basically just had a suitcase of clothes, my laptop, my camera stuff, and my steam deck.
		- We booked a one way flight to Hawaii and had a month long Airbnb booked to get settled while we searched for a long term apartment. I spent the next month exploring the city, trying to decide on a neighborhood to live in, and touring apartments. Our main priorities were to get a two bedroom apartment, live in a place that's walkable since we didn't have a car, and live within reasonable walking distance from the beach.
		- After a long search, we find an amazing apartment right next to the beach with views of the green mountainous ridges. I love looking out at the green ridges, seeing rainbows and clouds rolling over them, and even occasionally seeing hang gliders jumping off.
		- Packing up our life, moving out here, and getting settled was completely exhausting and took a lot more out of me than I was anticipating, but we're loving it now that we're settled and it was definitely worth it.
	- ## Living here
		- After being stuck inside for such a long time, I think what I appreciate the most is the amazing weather here. San Francisco had quite nice weather, but it was a lot foggier, rainier, and colder there. Here, it's almost always sunny and pleasant out. I can walk around at any time of day in just shorts and a T-Shirt. I'm spending a ton of time outside, going on long walks and just sitting outside reading.
		-
	-