- [[newsletter/issue-11]]
	- Life update: I'm living in Hawaii now. I moved to Honolulu about four months ago and have been loving it so far.
	- Even though I really enjoyed living in San Francisco for the past 9 years, I decided to try something new. We sold all our stuff and came here with only a few suitcases. My partner and I spent the last two years working from home in our small one-bedroom apartment during pretty strict lockdowns, so we both want to spend a lot of time outside and have fun. My main goals are to spend as much time as possible outside, get fit and healthy, learn new skills, and work on some new projects.
	- It took longer than expected to feel settled out here, but we finally are feeling established and found a great apartment near the beach.
	- Here are some of the things I like about living here:
	- ## Weather
		- Out of all the things, my favorite thing about living in Hawaii is how perfect the weather is all the time. I can't understate how much good weather positively impacts my well-being. We spent so much time indoors the last two years, and I'm so grateful to be outside all the time now.
		- The temperature ranges from 63-85°F (17-29°C), which is always comfortable. A place that never gets too hot or cold to be comfortable outside is rare. I can walk around in shorts and a T-Shirt any time of day, at any time of year, and it rarely rains.
		- I grew up in Florida, so I love warm weather. At this point, I've decided I never want to live anywhere it snows. I like Florida's weather overall, but it could get incredibly hot, had huge storms, and got surprisingly cold during winter. I also don't like dealing with misquotos, which are a problem in most warm areas like Florida and Texas, but I never see them here.
		- San Francisco weather is quite good, but it was often chilly, foggy, and rainy, so I often felt some resistance going out.
		- I've been taking long walks for hours, enjoying the weather and scenery, and reading outside. I appreciate going on long walks in the evening without needing jeans and a jacket.
		- If you want a change of scenery, there's a surprising diversity of climates here as well, 4 out of 5 climate types including tropical, arid, temperate, and even polar.
	- ## Outdoors
		- There's really interesting scenery here and it's a constant reminder that you're not in a normal place. I particularly like the green volcanic ridges in the distance. We have a nice view of them from our apartment and I see interesting clouds and mist passing over them and rainbows. Occasionally I see people hang gliding off of them.
		- The volcanic craters are great for hiking, and I especially like the view of Diamond Head at the beaches near me.
		- The rainbows here are off the charts. They are so vivid and I've never seen so many in my life.
		- There's a big firework show by our apartment every friday, which we always try to attend and that's been a really fun weekly ritual.
	- ## Beaches
		- There are some great beaches next to my apartment and I try to go swimming in the ocean as often as possible for exercise. There's an amazing view of diamond head and the ridges and I see tons of sea turtles and fish. Sometimes I get spooked when a big sea turtle pops its head up right next to me for air.
		- I also have been getting into stand-up paddleboarding. I got an inflatable paddleboard that fits in a backpack, so it's really easy to take out. I love paddleboarding, but it's surprisingly hard when it's wavy, but I'm slowly getting better.
		- There is really good surfing, which I plan to get into at some point, but watching the tons of surfers out at the beach has been really fun. I see people doing hydrofoiling which and it's really amazing to watch them glide above the water.
		- The ocean temperature is really nice, it's a bit warmer than Florida, and much warmer than the absolutely frigid beaches in California
		- There were beaches in SF, but the water was so cold and the beaches were so windy that I didn't go very often and they weren't very pleasant to hang out at.
		- We've been road-tripping around the island discovering new beaches. Each area has unique scenery; some are remarkable, especially on the west coast of Oahu.
	- ## Food
		- There's some really good food here as well. One of my goals this year is to get better at cooking, especially asian cuisine, and there are tons of specialty grocery stores where I can unique ingredients.
		- I've been trying to make some Hawaiian dishes. I've been buying poke by the pound and making homemade poke bowls. I've also been cooking homemade plate lunch variations with things like garlic shrimp, steak, and macaronni salad.
		- I've also tried Korean dishes like bulgolgi, japcahe (sweet potato starch noodles), and mung bean salad.
		- We have a nice grill at our apartment and we've been cooking a lot of grilled meats and vegetables as well.